hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
fun geometry problem two semi circles
are drawn on adjacent sides of square
with side length one solve for the red
area which is the area outside of the
semi circles and where the semi circles
overlap can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution so I
first solved this problem the long way
by solving for the area of the overlap
between the semi circles and then
considering what the total area would be
but there's a neat trick to solve this
problem draw the diagonals of the square
now rotate the circular segments about
the center of the square we end up with
the following diagram now we can see the
red area is exactly half of the square
because it fills the area above the
diagonal so the red area will be half of
the squares area so it will be one half
and we're done solving this problem did
you figure it out and which method did
you use thanks for watching this video
these math videos which can be watched
for free inspire and build confidence
for people around the world and they
already have over a hundred million
views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can map
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all of mind your
decisions videos email me a puzzle or
map topic presh at mind your decisions
calm and if you so choose you can check
out my books which are listed
the video description or you can support
me on patreon to earn exclusive rewards
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support